---
layout: code
title: Canada
tag: personal
---

We've decided to move to Canada. Specifically, Markham ON outside Toronto between August 2023 and MAy 2024. We're moving because we opt for a better future for our kids as our resources enable.

We're not moving to solve for evil, bad people, problems, social troubles, those are anywhere even Canada, rather, we're making a meaningful, tangible, measurable, real improvement to our family's lives on the points which count. I'm also prosaic that general social problems like rudeness and racism are not that much different there, but the violence and social contract are much improved there. The value to us of the social contract is easiest seen in societies like the Nordics.

The tipping point after 7 years of this thought brewing were the [Oxford High School shootings](//en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oxford_High_School_shooting) showed us that an affluent suburb [isn't much of a hedge against gun violence](//www.edweek.org/leadership/school-shootings-in-2021-4-takeaways-in-charts/2021/12). Sure, Brooklyn's bad and getting worse with its general crime and non-prosecution of crime which is anarchy not progressivism, but the problem is nationwide. We've not been personally touched by gun violence but I know a few who have been and we're not waiting for a day of regret based on mere hopes that it somehow won't happen. The interim stress isn't acceptable either.

Add to that the now almost customary [general violence](//edweek.org/leadership/violence-seems-to-be-increasing-in-schools-why/2021/11) plus possibly more worrisome yet atypical cyberbullying and bullying which school admins only want to silence to avoid jeopardizing their careers (born out of out experience with being ghosted by [PS052](//schools.nyc.gov/schools/K052) admins thus adding to our withdrawing our child from that school).

For most parents and ourselves included, when presented with these problems, there are 2 questions that never occur:
1. Isn't that messed up? No? Like, really, has anyone really felt this thought?
2. Can't we do better than this?

We can do better. But not in this country, a sad truth of the situation with decreasing social decorum, dignity, respect for respect, credibility, democratic rhetoric.

We need 2 years' time to do many things including
* my professional skills and career need to be aligned as to justify a foreign such hire since the cost to the employer of legally obtaining and justifying a work visa for me is very high, probably C$15,000, thus I have to work extra hard for this such,
  * legal justifications for a such hire which will be outside the control of the employer though they'll have to work to present them,
  * non-compete agreement to confer assurance to employer
  * pay re-negotiation, this will be tricky
* average house price in 2021 in Markham ON is C$1.6M and so we'll target Aurora or Stoufville instead,
  * rebudget this existing house which we hope to keep for summers back here with less kerfuffle
  * rebudget life there which is pricier for food, taxes, housing but lower for big things that matter like education, healthcare
* 2-3 trips of 3w each to confirm [research](//www.google.com/maps/d/u/0/edit?mid=1ZdhEdPmd70L9zpREv9su6G_M-F0hmtO0&usp=sharing)
* we estimate we can sustain the resources to homeschool our kids for 2y total, thus until August 2023,
* and endemic is roughly that long to reach.

Citizenship is after a work visa and we won't decide on citizenship until later. It's not a blocker to the first steps. We'll stay until all kids are done with primary schooling thus roughly 15y. Who knows if they'll stay for college there, the US has good ones but no one even they themselves know how that'll look, and we ourselves are unsure what the world will be like then thus no idea of a US return though we'd be pleased to return if the US has tangible improvements to the aforementioned issues.
